# Kyon: Big Damn Hero

## The Straightforward Flashback and Exposition Arc II

### Chapter Four: Epileptic Plot Tree

Disclaimer: The novel series of Suzumiya Haruhi that began with 'The
Melancholy of Suzumiya Haruhi' is the creation of Nagaru Tanigawa. No
disrespect is intended by the posting of this fanfiction, as I do not own the
characters or settings involved. I'm merely dabbling with another set of
paints. TVtropes(dot)org is part of the public domain, I think? I actually
couldn't find a 'legal' section on the site!

Notes: Count the tropes! Save, collect, trade for swell prizes!

* * *

"Chapter Twelve: As in Training, As in Life"

"...but just as in the training world, you will inevitably take some blows.
That's the purpose of practice, isn't it? Perfection may be a myth, but
success is not. So train to be good enough, and most importantly, when you get
hit, learn to take it."

"Roll With the Punches" -- Tadamichi Kyousuke

* * *

After a brief window of inaction, Kyon awoke to the sensation of impending
peril, one hand shooting out from beneath the covers and grasping his sister's
descending elbow before she could strike his midsection. "Urk!" she whimpered.
"You blocked!?"

"Is it time to get up?" he asked tiredly, sitting up and releasing his
sister's arm.

She pouted, rubbing at her elbow. "No," she admitted sullenly. "I got up early
to get you up, because it's fun."

He stared at her, then gave a broad grin. "You're a hundred years too young to
try that on me," he said defiantly, glancing at his clock and preemptively
turning off his alarm.

"You win this round!" his sister cried with mock rage, grinning back and
sticking out her tongue. "Next time I'll be the victor!"

"I'm sure," he answered, knuckling back a yawn and climbing out of bed. "Come
on, let's get cleaned up."

Despite that initial surge of energy, once he reached the school, Kyon found
himself drowsing, continually awoken by Haruhi's mechanical pencil jabbing him
in the back just as he was about to drift off.

* * *

Haruhi frowned at the boy in front of her. Why was he so tired? Things were
finally getting interesting -- really interesting.... Well, she couldn't
entirely blame him for trying to ignore the class; he did have better things
to think about. But it was no excuse to get a bad grade, especially after all
the effort she had put into helping him with his homework.

After finishing with the assignments in class, she decided to make a quick
study guide, something that would actually make him learn what he'd need for
the upcoming test. He might be some kind of hero, but she was the one with the
power to reshape reality, and he'd either let her teach him, or she'd persuade
Yuki to _make_ him pay more attention in class.

Despite his protestations. He may be in charge of a lot, but he also would
need a reminder that she was the supreme commander, and he was just a vice
commander.

"I am exhausted," he declared to no one in particular, when the lunch chime
rang.

"Oh? Time traveling?" she asked him, teasing. "Maybe fighting off more thugs
to protect Tsuruya-san's honor?"

Kunikida paused mid-step as he was about to approach Kyon, then suddenly
seemed to think better of it after hearing that remark and moved to an empty
seat near Taniguchi. "Farewell forever, dear friends," Kyon sighed. "Chased
away by fear of Haruhi and being caught up in our madness."

"Idiot," she retorted, smirking. "Come on, if you're going to insist we can't
talk about important things here, let's go to the clubroom for lunch."

"Naturally," he returned, rising to his feet and falling into step beside her.
"There's no way _that_ comment could be misconstrued."

She snorted and gave him a sharp look, but admitted internally that she was
pleased. He usually remembered his position, only usurping hers in times of
dire emergency, or the occasional times when he ignored her position as his
superior entirely and engaged in shameless flirting. Though that hadn't
happened since shortly after Valentine's day, when she thought back on it.
Well, it was kind of cute--

She paused, mid-way through pummeling the thought into submission, and made
herself face it head on. Alright, she admitted to herself. Kyon could be cute.
There was no shame in admitting that, though; even though he was a 'normal'
human, it was only on a technical level. He didn't have powers, but he was
pretty cool. He handled the abnormal with a level head and a placid
expression. That was respectable, at least. She nodded decisively.

"Something on your mind?" he asked, knuckling back another yawn.

"Just wondering why you never have any energy," she commented, opening the
clubroom door. Yuki was in her normal seat, already halfway through a thick
paperback titled, 'The Life of Pi'. Seated at the table near Yuki, Mikuru was
tiredly resewing her maid costume. "Oh? What happened to the costume, Mikuru-
chan?"

"Got a lot on _my_ mind," Kyon muttered, pulling his seat out and collapsing
into it. "Even if you don't. But, man am I _hungry_."

"It wasn't torn or anything," Mikuru answered, smiling. "But this one seam
scratched a tiny bit ... I realized how to restitch it to make it more
comfortable."

"Well, I like that enthusiasm!" Haruhi said, nodding her approval. "Hmm, I
didn't know you knew a lot about sewing?"

For some reason, the older girl looked vaguely haunted. "Yes, I know rather a
lot about sewing," she mumbled, lowering her face and focusing on her
needlework.

"Oh? Maybe I should get some supplies, and you can sew new costumes?" Haruhi
suggested.

"I don't know how to design costumes," Mikuru answered evenly. "Maybe I will
tomorrow. Otherwise, if you bring me a pattern and cloth, I'm sure I can make
it."

"That's good ambition!" she approved. "Hey, Kyon, learn from her example, huh?
Have a good reason to be tired. You were _totally_ dozing off during history.
Luckily, I'm looking out for you, so I took some notes you can check out."

He blinked at her as she flourished the small stack of papers, taking them
with a grave seated bow, made comical by the chopsticks he held in his mouth.
"Thanks," he managed around the utensils.

With obvious effort, he focused his eyes on the pages of notes she had taken,
setting his chopsticks down. While he was distracted, she snagged his bento
and the chopsticks, smirking as she finished the rest of it off. That'd teach
him; next time he'd learn not to be so tired!

He frowned at a particular line, turning his head sideways as he studied it.
"I don't think 'exactly like Genghis Kahn' tells me much," he said, glancing
at her and then rolling his eyes when he saw his demolished lunch. "Urg.
Anyway, just saying something is like something else doesn't tell me anything
when I don't remember the original reference."

"You absolutely do," she challenged him. "Didn't you say that I imposed order
like Genghis Kahn, once?"

"What, wiping out all opposition in a bloody march with no quarter offered,
replacing the older system with a regimented and cleanly run organization of
your own devising?" he asked, squinting. "Something like that?"

"Exactly like that!" she replied, beaming. "Man, you are so book dumb
sometimes!"

"I guess I did say that," he murmured, mildly disquieted. "I must have
perfected sleep-learning, or something."

"You will improve with practice," Yuki remarked, flipping to the next page.

"Anyway," he announced, rising to his feet, "I'm still really hungry, so I
think I'll see if there's anything left at the cafeteria."

"There isn't," Kanae answered him, opening the door and ducking her head
slightly. Koizumi stood behind her with a large paper bag in both hands. "I
was really hungry after last night, too, but I guess I took too long to get
there -- I had to run off campus and stop by the bakery a block and a half
away. Thankfully, Koizumi-san helped me out!"

Kyon blinked, frowning as he glanced at the pair, then sighed and sank back
into his chair. His stomach gave an unsettling growl, and Haruhi began to feel
a little sorry that she'd taken half his lunch ... but then, the cafeteria was
empty, and _she_ was still hungry, too.

"I didn't expect a lunch meeting," Koizumi said cheerfully. "But when I saw
Michikyuu-san heading out of the campus, I thought I'd see if she needed help
with anything." Kanae pulled out a chair for herself and another for Koizumi
as the esper closed the door behind him with one foot, then set the bag on the
table. "I hope no one has any problems with pork buns?"

"And chocolate cornets!" Kanae added. Blushing slightly, she handed one of the
buns to Kyon, adding, "Thanks for last night, Sempai."

Haruhi couldn't help when one of her eyebrows twitched. "Excuse me?" she
asked, distracted from the free food by that last comment.

"It was the first time, I.... I mean...." Kanae blushed more brightly. "It
wore me out quite a bit, but with Sempai and Nagato-san, I don't mind at all!"

"Kyon!" Haruhi screeched, standing up so quickly the chair beneath her rolled
across the floor until it crashed into the wall behind her. "What is the
meaning of this!?"

"I'm pretty worn out from last night, too," Mikuru added, covering her mouth
as she yawned.

Koizumi winced, actually making a tiny whimper as he turned his gaze towards
Kyon and begged, "Please tell me that this is a misunderstanding?"

"I don't know what she's talking about," Kyon said defensively. "I'm pretty
sure I spent almost all last night learning martial arts."

"That's amazing, _Neo_, now what does it have to do with you wearing out an
underclassman!?" Haruhi demanded, glowering down at him.

He stared up in befuddlement for a long moment before understanding dawned in
his eyes. "It is _not_ like that!" he insisted, jumping to his feet and
dismissing his exhaustion to protest hotly, his own chair sliding backwards
into the clothing rack. "I swear to you -- I did absolutely nothing
inappropriate!"

"Then what _happened_?" Haruhi growled, her eyes narrowing.

"Er, I said something wrong, maybe?" Kanae said with an embarrassed chuckle,
sticking her tongue out and miming a blow to her head. "Last night I got to
practice sliding! It took a long time, but I think I'm finally starting to
learn how to control it a bit better, thanks to Sempai and Nagato-san!
Asahina-san was there, too, but a lot of it gets really fuzzy...."

"T...that's all that it was, though?" the brigade chief pressed, still glaring
at Kyon.

"Er ... um ... Asahina-san, do you think you could help, here?" he asked,
turning a pleading gaze on the tired upperclassman.

"Kyon-kun was a good boy," Mikuru answered sleepily. "It's Nagato-san's fault
for teleporting me straight out of the shower."

"I...it seems that a rather large closed space has appeared," Koizumi said in
a mournful tone. "I'm afraid I will be absent for a while...." He bowed
apologetically towards Haruhi, then nodded at Kyon, adding, "I will leave
everything else up to you."

As the esper marched out of the room, Kyon sighed and rubbed at his eyes,
calling out, "Good luck, Koizumi."

"Yuki-chan," Haruhi said, before biting back her protest. Well, she _had_
agreed that the other girl could 'borrow' Kyon. But what did she need with
Mikuru and Kanae?! "I'm expecting an explanation for this!" Come to think of
it, what were the practical limitations of 'borrowing', anyway?

Yuki raised her gaze from her book languidly. "Last night," she began, without
preamble, "I neared overload due to queued data-creation and modification
requests from you. To prevent overload, as per the instructions given by him
and yourself, I undertook to dispose of all junk data and error-causing
behaviors. After preparing all three subjects with nanites for preservation,
Michikyuu Kanae attempted to slide to an alternate dimension, simultaneous to
the activation of Asahina Mikuru's time travel device, while I engaged the
dimensional anchor with a modified temporal anchor function.

"The resultant actions, guided by stored data from yourself, were sufficient
to create a semi-stable permeable reality governed by myself that was outside
of both space and time, allowing me to ground myself from the negative
attribute data that would cause error behavior. This same space was also used
to simultaneously allow Michikyuu Kanae practice sliding between nested
pocket-dimensions and Asahina Mikuru to undertake her requested training in
sewing. Per his own instructions, he undertook martial arts training and
assisted me with ... personal issues."

Yuki blinked once as Haruhi absorbed everything.

"After spending sufficient time to resolve internal issues, I restored all of
us to the baseline physical reality and undid the time-based changes in
physical age, as well as clearing out all non-necessary mental data to prevent
unintentional corruption or trauma of hosts by acquired data."

"You mean," Haruhi said, struggling, "everyone spent last night training on
stuff, and then you wiped it all out?"

"Negative. The results of training remain, even if the specific datum of
acquisition are no longer present. Additionally, physical conditioning is
preserved, even though aging was reversed. In this way, muscle memory and
skill can be preserved memetically."

"How long did we actually spend there?" Mikuru mused. "It's strange, since I
can ... kind of ... vaguely remember it, but not really _specifically_ recall
much. Even so, I know much more about sewing, now." She gave a tiny shiver.
"_Much_ more. If I'd known, I'd have suggested something more serious...."

"One year of relative time was spent in training," Yuki answered.

"That'd explain it," Kyon said, shaking his head and settling back into his
seat. "I remember all of the basics of what I learned, and I felt strangely
light this morning. And, weirdly enough, I felt like I really, really
missed--" He coughed suddenly, staring into his half-eaten pork bun. "But,
yeah. That's what happened. It's funny, though ... I know a full year of
training in martial arts ... which is pretty much enough to realize I've got a
long way to go." He sighed, shaking his head. "Anyway, sorry about that,
Haruhi. I guess it did sound a bit strange, the way Kanae-chan said it."

"Hehe.... My bad. Sorry, Sempai," Kanae added, still blushing as she half hid
her face behind a pork bun.

"I'll say," Haruhi agreed, feeling oddly deflated. "But, that's no fun! Why am
I left out?"

"Your presence would create more data," Yuki answered unapologetically. "I
would be more likely to enter an error state. This is undesirable."

"Yeah, but I don't have to like it," Haruhi grumbled.

Kyon winced. "You could try," he said, somewhat pleadingly. "If not for us,
then for Koizumi, who is working overtime for you, now."

"Cornet?" Kanae offered Haruhi sympathetically. "Even though it felt like it
was that long for us, Sempai still came back here with you the next day,
right?"

"I guess," Haruhi agreed reluctantly, taking the pastry and biting the head
end absently. "But there better not be any fooling around in these dream-
training things! And I don't care how busy you are, I'm _still_ making you pay
attention in class, Kyon."

"At least I've got that," he grumbled. "Man, why am I so hungry?"

"You will require more protein to generate the mass your conditioning has come
to expect from your training," Yuki answered, turning her gaze back to her
book.

"Yeah? I guess that makes sense. My own fault for asking for martial arts."
Then he shook his head sharply, taking another bite from his pork bun before
adding, "Though it seems I'll need that to help Tsuruya-san a few days ago."

"Huh? Yuki-chan, I would have expected you to take better care of him!" Haruhi
protested weakly, trying to remember that she needed to control her
frustration.

Yuki looked up from her book, for a moment the merest hint of confusion
flickering in her eyes. "I thought you would wish to do that yourself," she
said quietly.

"Delicious pork bun," Kyon mumbled, devouring another and studiously ignoring
the conversation. "Thanks again, Kanae-chan."

Haruhi felt her face color as she nodded. "Right," she decided. "Come on,
Kyon, grab another bun and let's get back to class before the bell, okay?"

"Sure," he agreed, taking the notes she had made for him and following her out
of the clubroom. "And, thanks for the help with my schoolwork."

"No problem," she mumbled while they walked down the stairs. "It's not as neat
as training you in martial arts in your sleep, though."

"It's something I can talk to my parents about without being sent to an
institution," he told her, smirking. "Isn't that something?"

"What's with you trying to be so nice?"

"It's no good seeing you when you're feeling down," he said, shrugging
apologetically. "Didn't I already tell you that?"

"Hmm," she mused, giving a weak smile. "Well, that's something."

* * *

After class finished, Kyon cracked his neck, unconsciously stretching his
muscles and joints while switching stance from foot to foot, as though in
preparation for a fight. Suddenly knowing basic martial arts was strange, if
very convenient from a practical standpoint. Knuckling back another yawn, he
turned around to follow Haruhi to the clubroom, surprised to see her ordering
a stack of note paper, still sitting at her desk.

"Here," she said, thrusting the papers towards him without meeting his eyes.
"You're exempted from the club meeting today. Go home and get some rest. If
you're not too tired tomorrow morning, we'll go over the homework before
class."

"...thanks," he managed, frowning. "Um, Haruhi, are you upset with me?"

"Not with you," she said, grimacing. "Anyway, I need to have a talk with Yuki-
chan and Mikuru-chan."

He blinked away some of his exhaustion. "If there's anything I can help you
with--"

"This is something I have to figure out for myself," she said, shaking her
head. "Really, just get some rest. We're going to have a lot to talk about
tomorrow."

"Okay," he allowed, wishing that either of them were smiling at the moment.
"Well ... take care, then."

She nodded before breezing out of the classroom.

"Trouble in paradise?" Taniguchi mused, drawing close.

"And what's this about you fighting thugs for Tsuruya-sempai?" Kunikida asked,
following with a concerned expression.

"Yeah," Taniguchi said, nodding seriously. "Suzumiya talking about nonsense
like time traveling isn't going to raise too many questions, but people
attacking a sempai, and you getting into fights? I hate to tell you that you
should back off, since you and Suzumiya seem to be heading toward 'item'
territory ... but if she's losing it, I don't think you want to get dragged
down with her."

Kyon looked down to the stack of note papers in his hand. "Thank you,
Taniguchi," he said, struggling for an earnest tone. "I should be honored to
have a friend like you, trying to spare me the indignity of being dragged into
a whirlpool of depravity and academic success."

Kunikida chuckled weakly. "To be fair, Kyon," he said, shifting his shoulders
uncomfortably, "even if it wasn't worded diplomatically.... Well, perhaps it
would be better to say that you're generally a respectable person. If you're,
ah, pursuing companionship solely for help in studying, wouldn't Sasaki-san be
a better choice?"

Struggling to think of an acceptable response, Kyon frowned and cracked the
knuckles on both hands, prompting his friends each to take a step back. "What,
precisely," he asked, "has changed? Haruhi hasn't become somehow worse, or
really that different than she was last year."

"Yeah, well ... she's rubbing off on you," Taniguchi said, spreading his arms
in a helpless gesture. "It was great when you somehow were taming the shrew.
Don't get me wrong, it was nothing short of a miracle that you were able to
reach her! But now she's turning you a bit crazy."

"I'm not sure what's gotten into you two," Kyon decided. "But I haven't been
resting well lately. Maybe I seem more docile because I'm tired, but you're
probably making too much of it. What does a joke between Haruhi and myself
have to do with the rest of us going about our business as normal?"

"Well, if it was just Haruhi, that'd be fine," Taniguchi said, shaking his
head. "But Tsuruya-sempai mentioned you getting into a fight on her behalf, as
well. She's too well respected to be considered responsible for it, and she's
not the type to spread baseless rumors, so naturally...."

"It's just that the general consensus is, grades aside ... if you're getting
into trouble, Haruhi must be behind it," Kunikida finished. "Especially since
she mentioned it earlier ... that pretty much seemed to confirm that it wasn't
a joke. You don't want a reputation as a delinquent, do you?"

"Tsuruya-sempai thinks I'm a delinquent?" Kyon asked skeptically.

"Well, no, she said you were a warrior-philosopher, or something else silly
like that," Taniguchi said, shaking his head and making a dismissive gesture
with one hand. "But what else do you call someone who solves problems with
violence?"

"A problem solver?" Kyon asked. "Anyway, I don't know what else to say, here.
I appreciate the warning, I guess, but if it comes down to it, I'm at Haruhi's
side until the end -- so, sorry." When Taniguchi opened his mouth to say
something else, Kyon raised a hand to forestall further comment. "I'm really
tired. I'm going home to get some rest. Maybe this whole thing is a product of
inadequate sleep, and we'll all feel better about it tomorrow."

"That seems very peaceable," Kunikida agreed, shooting Taniguchi a warning
look as Kyon's hand dropped to his side.

Unsatisfied with silence, Taniguchi said, "Well, be careful at least."

* * *

Haruhi reached the clubroom second, Yuki somehow being there first, as she
usually was. "Not visiting the computer research society much these days?" she
asked the slighter girl, who had almost finished her paperback.

Yuki blinked slowly, then gave a minuscule shake of her head.

"Yuki-chan, we need to talk about Kyon."

The smaller girl gave a tiny nod and closed her book, turning to look at
Haruhi expectantly.

For her part, the brigade leader walked to her desk, turning the computer on
to give herself a brief distraction. "You like Kyon, don't you?" she finally
blurted out.

"Yes," Yuki answered softly, her eyes still fixed on Haruhi.

"Um, anyway, Yuki-chan ... I _did_ say you could borrow him when you needed
to," Haruhi admitted, frowning. "But I'm having a hard time figuring things
out right now."

Yuki said nothing, merely staring in silence.

"I.... I mean, Kyon and I...." She hesitated, uncertain what to say.
Eventually, in a very quiet voice, she managed to ask, "Are you going to start
dating Kyon?"

After blinking once, Yuki answered, "I do not seek to initiate courtship
rituals or physical intimacy with him, though I will reciprocate if he
demonstrates an obvious inclination. However, as has been observed previously,
my understanding of his genuine desires and emotions is faulty; I can
therefore not safely assume that such demonstrations have occurred without
verifying them through a third party."

Haruhi stared at the smaller girl hard, furrowing her brow. "You're telling
me," she said slowly, "that you can't tell if Kyon likes you, and you don't
want to mess things up? So you'd need to ask someone else if he really liked
you and wanted to date?"

Yuki's face tilted upwards slightly, as though she were considering the
statement. "Yes," she answered after an extended pause. "That third party must
be trusted; I would like to nominate you."

Drumming her fingers on the desk, glancing at the monitor as the OS screen
flashed past and the generic blue background appeared, Haruhi asked, "You want
me to help you hook up with him?"

The smaller girl's gaze lowered. "Uncertain," she answered. "Our behaviors do
not conform to typical models among humans. I am unable to determine how this
would change the interactions between the group definitively, but there is a
significant probability that committing to such a course of action would
result in dissatisfaction among most others."

"Yeah," Haruhi sighed, rubbing at her temples. "If only there was a way for
everyone to be happy, huh? But there's only one Kyon to go around...." She
brightened suddenly. "Ooh! Hey, Yuki-chan, what about, um, making a bunch of
copies of Kyon!"

She stared at Haruhi blankly for a minute, then pointedly turned her attention
back to the book in her hands.

"Yeah, you're right," Haruhi grumbled with another resigned sigh. "Don't even
let Kyon know I suggested that; he wouldn't like it.... Maybe I should just
resign myself to letting him choose whoever he wants ... I mean...." She
trailed off, staring at the ceiling and musing absently until she was
distracted by Kanae and Mikuru walking into the room.

"Hello Suzumiya-san," Mikuru said sleepily, collecting her sewing kit and the
maid costume from where it had been left to finish her repairs.

"Hey, Mikuru-chan, Kanae-chan."

"Hi, everyone," the younger girl mumbled. "Oh, no Sempai...?"

"Close the door, Kanae-chan," Haruhi instructed. "Lock it, too. Koizumi's ...
working because I'm problematic, and I sent Kyon home to get some sleep."

"Um?" Mikuru noised, as Kanae followed her orders and took Koizumi's normal
seat at the table. "I...is something wrong? Suzumiya-san, if you and Kyon-kun
aren't getting along--"

"It's nothing to do with him and I," she said crossly, rubbing at her forehead
and spinning her chair to face the window, adjusting herself to sit cross-
legged on the seat. "Because, Mikuru-chan ... you like Kyon, don't you?"

Mikuru yelped quietly, looking up in alarm and sucking the fingertip she had
pricked with her sewing needle. "Er.... That is.... Of course! He's a very
good friend!"

"You don't have to act clueless and moe right now," Haruhi grumped. "I mean,
romantically. If I weren't being an obstacle to you, you'd try and date him,
wouldn't you?"

"Er.... Uh...."

"Be honest!"

"It's ... forbidden," Mikuru said quietly. "I...if you must know, then ...
yes, I do like Kyon-kun ... he's reliable, and doesn't have ulterior motives.
But I'm not _from_ this timeplane; I can't have, um, relationships with anyone
from here. S...so, please don't think of me as a threat, Suzumiya-san! And you
can't ask me to think of him without you being in the picture; if it weren't
for _you_, I never would have been sent back and been able to meet him anyway!
I don't want to come between the two of you!"

Haruhi stuck one foot out and turned the chair around to face her club
members. Kanae rubbed at one eye and peered at Mikuru in bemused fascination,
while Yuki's eyes were fixed firmly on Haruhi. Mikuru herself merely gazed at
her sewing project with a bowed head, her hands not moving, her expression
downcast.

"I'm not a threat to you," Mikuru repeated quietly. "I never could be."

"I don't like that answer," Haruhi mumbled. "It's just like an action movie
where the hero dies. Or where the hero likes two girls, so one isn't quite as
pure-hearted or kind as the other, and is killed to make it so the hero never
has to choose. Yuki-chan likes Kyon, too. Augh! This is frustrating, really,
really frustrating!"

"P...please don't get frustrated!" Mikuru begged. "There's nothing to worry
about from me! Kyon-kun and I ... will never be more than friends."

Haruhi sighed, pushing the keyboard away from her so she could cross her arms
and rest her head there. "Maybe I'm thinking about things too hard," she
forced out. "Maybe, really, I should be asking who _he_ likes, right?"

"This got really serious," Kanae said, shivering. "Um, what's going on?"

"I'm trying to sort things out," Haruhi answered. "Kyon didn't mention it ...
but for a while I thought maybe he liked me ... then I thought about it more
and realized, maybe he's just being so nice to me because he _has_ to be."

"That's not true at all!" Kanae said firmly, shaking her head. "I've been to a
lot of worlds, and in some of them you have a power, and in some you don't.
But Sempai likes you in a _lot_ of them. That can't be just coincidence."

"He does?" Haruhi asked hopefully, turning her eyes to the underclassman. "It
wouldn't be so much of a problem if he would just admit it and make the first
move!"

Kanae nodded quickly. "Absolutely," she said cheerfully. "It makes me a bit
jealous; most worlds I jump to, he wants to help me but has to take care of
you, more...." She shrugged, her smile slipping momentarily before she forced
more cheer. "But ... that's what's great about Sempai! He doesn't have to want
to ask me out to care about me and want to make sure I'm okay. And that's ...
fine ... for me."

Haruhi drummed her fingertips on her desk absently. "You really think so?" she
asked quietly, wondering about Kanae's actual feelings. Fleeing constantly
through alternate realities, with Kyon as the only reliable person she
knew.... That situation seemed oddly familiar.

"I think so," Mikuru said earnestly. "Don't let yourself get down, Suzumiya-
san! If Kyon-kun ... didn't like you, he wouldn't have tried so hard when he
asked you to help Nagato-san. He would have found a way to break things off
with you at the same time, or give up your powers for good! He didn't, so...."

Haruhi's fingers drummed the table again. "I still don't like that answer,"
she mumbled.

* * *

In a dark mood, Kyon strode out of the school grounds. He paused a few steps
out of the gate as a mature woman in a sharp suit approached him, giving a
terse nod. "Mori-san," he greeted her neutrally, struggling to keep the
irritation his classmates had instilled from his face.

"Sir," she greeted him, somewhat stiffly. "I'm here for our meeting, as you
requested?"

He took a deep breath and gave the woman a slow nod of his own. "Is Koizumi in
trouble?" he asked.

Her expression eased slightly as she shook her head. "He's just busy at the
moment, Sir." He spent an idle moment wondering what the hell his future self
was going to say to this woman that had made her so deferential to him. "This
way...?"

The familiar black cab awaited a short distance down the street, and he
shrugged at it in bemusement. It would get him home faster, letting him bypass
the train. Which in turn, most likely meant that he _should_ get more sleep
once he got home.... He got into the back seat, Mori opening he door on the
opposite side and sitting next to him. Arakawa wordlessly started the car up.

He didn't feel like trying to puzzle through whatever it was that his future
self had arranged, so he decided he'd try relying on raw bluster: "If you'd
care to begin...?"

"Very well," she agreed. "While en route to his current assignment, Koizumi-
kun relayed an update on the situation with Suzumiya-san."

"Okay. And...?"

"So far," Mori said evenly, her eyes turning to fix on some distant point
outside of the car window, "everything regarding Suzumiya-san has matched your
predictions. Assuming you're correct, and tomorrow morning is the peak of
closed space creation for the two week period that we established, then we'll
accept that you have the situation under control." Her eyes hardened and
shifted to his; he felt he should be trying to return her hard stare, but
could only gaze back lethargically.

Hopefully, he told himself, the lack of excited reaction would convey some
sense of confidence to her. Surprisingly enough, it seemed to, and she quickly
looked away again. "In the meantime," she continued, unprompted, "we're also
following up on your request to ensure that Michikyuu Kanae is provided the
same protection you are afforded. Naturally, since she's joined Suzumiya-san's
club, this makes her a person of interest to us anyway."

"Of course," he said, nodding. Why had he thought to request that from
Arakawa? It made sense the Organization would watch over anyone in the Brigade
_anyway_, if only to determine who they were and what powers, if any, they
might have. Stabbing blindly at the next conversation topic, he asked, "And
the puppet Student Council?"

"Well, as you said, Sir," Mori sighed, "there's not much we can do about
Kimidori Emiri. However, she was never part of our equations anyway; in fact,
we typically tried to hide our agenda from her because the IDSE and ourselves
have our own goals. If she's an enemy, I don't hesitate to lay that problem
firmly at _your_ feet, since you've started this mess. That being said, we had
nothing planned within the next two weeks anyway."

"Right," he said, committing the details to memory. This would absolutely have
to be written down if he was to manage whatever madness he was going to do
last Sunday. "Good. Did Koizumi mention the potential IDSE bargaining chip we
had on the table?" Those words sounded good ... right out of an intrigue
filled political drama. Doubtless Haruhi would be thrilled to hear this story
later.

"New data?" Mori asked, giving a small nod. "Again, that falls firmly into the
area of 'not our problem'."

"I know," he said patiently. "But if we're working together, well, as I
mentioned before, I'd like us to be on friendly terms. My plan isn't something
inane, like, 'bite off more than you can chew and chew it anyway'. While I am
doing my best, I don't have the arrogance to believe I'm infallible."

Mori turned her face back to him, her eyes softening as she raised her
eyebrows. "More and more, I'm starting to like you, Sir," she said with a wry
grin. "You remind me of myself at your age. Well, in that case, the only thing
that occurred to me is that ... this entire thing, every action you've taken
so far, could be an IDSE orchestrated ploy. That is to say ... for all we
know, they've arranged things from behind the scenes specifically so that you
would 'collar' Suzumiya-san and thus restrict their precious 'data creation'
to a safely controlled vector."

The thought chilled him deeply, to consider he could have been manipulated so
perfectly. If it were true, had Yuki betrayed him? Or was she, too, just a
puppet? He didn't like the idea of anyone being a puppet for anyone else....
Resolving to ensure that Haruhi endured less harsh restrictions from himself
in the future, he gave a thoughtful nod he didn't quite feel.

"Then again," he said, realizing that thanks to exhaustion, his expression
hadn't changed despite his alarm, "this also connects to the other theories of
the Organization; Haruhi is God, for example." He'd never believed that
one.... Able to warp reality, sure, but God? Even Koizumi said he hadn't
bought into that one, and he was the closest thing to a Haruhi-worshiper Kyon
had ever met. "I don't think I'm going to ask Haruhi to create a rock she
can't move anytime soon ... but we can't exactly prove this, can we?"

"We can't," Mori agreed. "I'm guessing you had already considered it, then?"

"Not really," he admitted. "The theory's sound, but I don't believe any of us
are predictable enough for the IDSE to risk it. I can easily see them wanting
Haruhi controlled to provoke reactions safely, but threatening Yuki? After
what I told them? That's like giving a monkey a chainsaw and hoping that it'll
create a new form of art. It might work, but probably it's just going to get
messy and end poorly."

Eyes widening in surprise, Mori laughed aloud; from the front seat, even
Arakawa snickered. "Your argument is as compelling as mine," Mori allowed,
recovering. "Neither can truly be proven yet. Very well, Sir. I hope for all
of our sakes, you're able to do as well as you claim. In the meantime, is
there anything else your plans will require?"

"Nothing serious, for the moment," he said dismissively. "Maybe a coffee
machine for the club room, at the rate things are going."

"If everything works out after tomorrow, it will be a small price to pay,
Sir," Mori agreed as the car pulled to a stop. "Koizumi-kun has made that
request many times. Thank you again for your candor, and good luck with your
objectives."

"Don't mention it, Mori-san," he replied, somewhat bemused as he opened the
door and stepped out of the car, waving at the pair as the vehicle drove away.
Did the clubroom actually have a coffee machine coming to it...? That would be
amusing ... but he'd feel guilty if it got back to Haruhi as any kind of abuse
of his authority.

He saw his sister approaching, looking over her shoulder at the vanishing car
curiously. "I even said I wasn't serious," he mumbled to himself. "Well, it's
not like everything I say I want will come to me. If it were, I'd wish that
Haruhi and I could really get along, and she'd find a way to be happy."

"Haru-nee-san isn't happy?" his little sister asked, drawing close enough only
to hear the last part.

"Oh, you know," he said with a yawn. "She wants me to study harder."

"So does Mom!" his sister said brightly. "She's always telling me to study
harder than you, since you set the bar low!"

"That's swell," he grumbled, rolling his eyes and heading into the house.
"Here's an easy bar to clear: I'm going to take a nap."

"What does setting a bar mean?"

* * *

His eyes slowly blinked open from his nap, staring upward into Yuki's eyes as
she peered down at him. He forced back a yawn and sat up, glancing around her
apartment. Looking somewhat irritable and wearing a bathrobe, Mikuru knelt at
the table, mumbling about getting phone calls first. Kanae was sitting next to
Mikuru, working on her homework and evidently unperturbed.

"Hello?" he said by way of greeting, looking down at himself ... he was
wearing his dress shirt and slacks, too tired to change into his pajamas or
strip. Though, that last thought was thankful, in retrospect.

Kanae blinked at his voice and looked around. "Oh!" she exclaimed. "This isn't
my room! I didn't even feel the slide!"

"I did," Mikuru said with a sigh. "Nagato-san, are you trying to embarrass
me?"

Yuki turned her gaze to Mikuru without changing expression. "No," she
answered. "With your permission, we shall proceed again."

Shifting his shoulders, Kyon sat up and nodded. "Is this going to be a nightly
occurrence?" he asked, trying to keep annoyance from entering his voice.

"Unknown," Yuki answered. "The amount of time Michikyuu Kanae will require to
master her ability to shift dimensions is as of yet undetermined."

"Oh, right," Kyon realized, blinking. This wasn't _just_ about Yuki dealing
with her 'error' data. "Well, in that case, I'm ready, Nagato. I think I've
got a way to go before I finish what I chose to learn ... and I can't travel
back to last Sunday until I finish it."

"More sliding practice!" Kanae cheered, throwing her hands into the air
excitedly. "I've never been so fortunate in any world I've jumped to!"

"Um, I should keep a positive attitude, too," Mikuru contributed. "If it's not
too much trouble, Nagato-san, could you call me before teleporting me here
next time? I'd really like to arrive dressed ... if Suzumiya-san were to hear
about, um, me arriving in such a condition on a regular basis, she'd probably
become even more upset."

"She's upset right now?" Kyon asked, frowning. "That's no good; what's wrong?"

Yuki looked away, adopting an expression Kyon hadn't seen since he asked her
what happened to people after they died. "I should not say," she eventually
answered.

"Well," he said, frowning, "I already _know_ that there's supposed to be a
huge closed space incident tomorrow. Do you have any advice on that front?"

Her eyes ponderously swung back to meet his. "Seek happiness."

"Er, um," Mikuru managed, her face turning red, "you should ... make the first
move. Suzumiya-san is just ... stressed that.... Well, I probably shouldn't
say, either. But I trust you to sort things out!"

"Go Sempai!" Kanae cheered again. "I'm confident he can do it!"

"If you are ready to proceed?" Yuki asked, turning her gaze to Kyon again.

"Yeah," he agreed. "No need to put off your error correction any further than
required."

"Understood. Initializing," Yuki announced, and for a moment, Kyon wondered
how Kanae could not have noticed being teleported as the world exploded away
around him.

Again.

* * *

"Kyon!" Flashes of light, crackling energy dozens of orders of magnitude lower
than the ones in the spaces that Yuki had pulled him through with her teleport
echoed through his field of vision before his eyes snapped open to see Haruhi
kneeling over him. She was wearing her school uniform, and he guessed without
checking he was too.

He blearily blinked and sat up, squinting at the gray sky overhead. "This
again?" he asked, stretching.

"Sorry," she mumbled, unable to meet his eyes. "I thought I was having a
pretty bad day, then ... it got worse."

