# Kyon: Big Damn Hero

## In Media Res Prologue

### Exactly What it Says on the Tin

Disclaimer: The novel series of Suzumiya Haruhi that began with 'The
Melancholy of Suzumiya Haruhi' is the creation of Nagaru Tanigawa. No
disrespect is intended by the posting of this fanfiction, as I do not own the
characters or settings involved. I'm merely dabbling with another set of
paints. TVtropes(dot)org is part of the public domain, I think? I actually
couldn't find a 'legal' section on the site!

Notes: Count the tropes! Save, collect, trade for swell prizes! This story
diverges from slightly before the A/B paths in novel nine, but assumes the
'lazy Sunday' from A.

* * *

"Chapter Two: Don't Just SAY You Have a Bad Feeling, DO Something About It!"

"...but I digress. When you get that feeling, you know the one, in the back of
your head? The one that makes you think something is off about the situation?
It may be right. Granted, you may also be tumbling headlong into a fit of
paranoia that will end terribly for you and everyone you love. But what if
you're NOT? Remember, if you're aware of things, you know most people think
you're crazy anyway. Is it going to hurt that much more to overreact rather
than just label something a false alarm?"

"Practical Heroism and You: Awareness" -- Tadamichi Kyousuke

* * *

Class had started innocently enough that day, but he'd long ago given up on
expecting _that_ to mean anything. With each passing moment after lunch, he
grew more and more anxious, stealing glances behind him to make certain that
she was still there -- still _safe_. And every time their eyes met, she
smirked knowingly and quickly looked outside, trying to pretend eye contact
was never made.

He was absolutely certain that if his sense of anxiety weren't imagined, she
was the one behind it -- one way or another. When the fifth period bell rang,
he was prepared. In a way, he'd always wanted to do this; exact that one tiny
bit of revenge upon her for all the times she'd done it to _him_. So when she
rose, turned in one smooth motion, and made to bolt out of the room--

--he was there first, seizing the decorative ties of her sailor uniform's neckerchief and making for the door at top speed. "Bwa!" she protested, arms waving frantically as she dashed to keep up, or risk the knot being pulled out. "What the hell do you think you're doing!?"

Naturally, he said nothing to her during the entire mad dash to the remote
stairwell where she had first hauled _him_ by his own tie, so long ago. He
released her at the top of the steps after looking around to ensure that no
one else was nearby. Her momentum carried her forward, resulting in him
pressing one hand flat against her chest, just below her neck. Her eyes
quickly sharpened, her features fixed into a scowl. "What the hell, Kyon!?"

He held up one hand and said, "Something's up."

Her irritation vanished instantly, replaced with wide-eyed excitement. She
clapped her hands together and hopped from foot to foot. "Yes!" she cheered.
"It's been so _boring_ lately!"

"This better not be your fault!" He shook his head in irritation, then patted
his left coat pocket. Then right, then both pants pockets, then the back of
each hand. After that, he traced the fingertips of his right hand above his
ear, eyes distant, and pulled his cell phone from one pocket.

"What is it?" she asked, when he spent a long minute studying the screen.

"Maybe a false alarm," he admitted, shifting his shoulders. "Are you messing
with me?"

"I should be asking _you_ that! But whatever! You hauled me all the way out
here -- by my shirt, I might add! -- so tongues are going to wag! If you're
going to do this, then you know what I want!"

"Haruhi...."

"Do it!" she said, bouncing on the balls of her feet in excitement. "I want to
see it!"

"Is now really the time? Break's going to be over soon--"

"Get it out now! I want to see!"

Heaving the sigh of the eternally doomed, he put his phone away and muttered
underneath his breath.

"Do that voice, too! You know the one? Like from a movie voice-over guy? I
love that! Do it! Come on!"

"Fine," he grumbled. "But _you_ come up with the excuse for class."

"Student council president," she said without hesitation. "Blame him."

"_Ahem_," he coughed, shooting her a dark look. "Take a step back, I don't
want to catch you in the interdiction field again."

She nodded and stepped backwards, against the wall.

Standing perfectly straight, hands at his sides, he closed his eyes, and began
speaking in his best faux movie announcer voice-over: "Skinsuit active," as
something that looked like nothing so much as black paint suddenly engulfed
his entire body beneath his uniform. "Gravimetric stabilizers and secondary
gyrometrics online," as ridged metal studs appeared on the back of each
knuckle, and beneath his uniform pants, metallic vertical rails were described
in the skinsuit. "Greatcoat thermoptic stealth disengaged," as a knee-length
tan greatcoat coalesced, covering his shoulders with a thick mantle.

"Doesn't that get hot?" Her smile had only grown, her eyes shining with
anticipation.

"We had environmental conditioning added last night, since the weather's
heating up," he said in a normal voice. Switching back, he said, "Primary
weapons check." He pulled a fifty centimeter long glittering metal cylinder
from within the greatcoat, releasing it to spin on its axis in midair to one
side, announcing, "Long range precision and high yield weaponry is at full
charge." A circle of light appeared on the floor around him, a simple white
ring with glittering sparks chasing around in either direction, sending
brilliant flashes to streak upwards.

Another cylinder, wider but shorter than the last was released to float next
to the first. "Mid- and short-range crowd-control weaponry is at ... ninety
seven percent capacity and charging," he continued, squinting at the
featureless gunmetal tube. Pulling a well-crafted sword hilt with no cross-
guard or blade from one pocket, he released it horizontally, and it hung
before him between the other weapons. "Beam saber is at full capacity." After
pulling his cell phone from one pocket, he brushed his fingertips over his
ear, revealing three dull metal studs in the skinsuit. "All systems nominal;
no proximity alarms--"

He broke off suddenly, scowling. "Okay," he said in his normal voice. "My
mistake. We've got incoming."

"God _damn_ it Kyon, you're so _cool_ when you do this," Haruhi gushed,
clapping her hands together. "What is it?"

"I'm not sure," he said, as a cold, familiar chuckle echoed. One eyebrow
twitched and he stowed his weapons, banishing the ring of light and flinging
his phone at Haruhi. "Speed dial two," he snapped. "Stay in the circle."

She pouted, but did as she was told, the ring of light reappearing on the
floor around her this time.

"Kyon-kun~!" someone caroled up the stairwell, the echoing click of their
shoes sounding as they climbed the stairs. "It's been a while, hasn't it?" The
school bell chimed just as she rounded the landing, and he activated the beam
saber. The blade made a crackling, whirring buzz and shed a soft, pale blue
light. "Y...you...." she began, before she frowned, blinking, staring at the
energy weapon.

"Long time no see," he said, switching stance to the long-sword style, Ni-Ten
Ichi Ryu.

"Um.... Hm. This is different. You've certainly changed, Kyon-kun."

"That's funny, Asakura-san, because you haven't."

* * *

Author's Notes: I promised. And I wasn't kidding.

Now, count the tropes! Save, collect, trade for swell prizes!

